Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in the last set of lectures we spent a lot of time talking about content strategy basics and now
we're finally going to start coming up with ideas about what to write.
This idea generating process is going to involve us going out to a couple of different platforms and
Web sites and basically trying a bunch of experiments to see what ideas work and don't work and then
recording our good ideas somewhere so we can turn them into content later.
Well before we start digging for ideas I want to make sure you've got a system in place for recording
your ideas or have at least thought about a system.
You guys don't want to make a system you can skip this lecture or otherwise hear it in detail.
One of the ways that you can put this down into an easy to use system.
So in this lecture I want to take you through the process of setting up a place to store your content
ideas.
This is something you can start with and will probably evolve over time but the idea is to have some
place where you can go as you do your research when you're looking for ideas and as you're planning
out your content strategy for the long term.
So what kind of place do we need for recording our ideas.
We need something easily accessible something we like and something we probably use before and that's
something that's pretty easy to use.
So by now you probably tried out a few different apps and platforms you could probably start with a
Google Doc and I personally recommend something that has spreadsheets because there's only a bunch of
fields of information worth storing and then you can sort them more easily it's not just a block of
text.
Personally I use a tool called Air table.
It's basically like Excel on crack.
More specifically it reminds me of google sheets but it has all this extra functionality and it just
does a whole lot more.
You can customize a lot more.
You can make it function like web forums or web pages or you can just do a ton with it.
Whatever you decide to use you'll need to do some initial setup to make sure you're getting the details
that you need later.
And that's what we're gonna go over now so that you know six months from now you're not looking at your
content list going.
What was Evan talking about.
Let's say you're a graphic designer.
You're trying to get more clients and you've decided to start a blog because while you're smart and
you're plenty of ideas you can share about graphic design logo design Photoshop and you know all that
stuff.
Well you could use google sheets to create a spreadsheet to keep track of your ideas and that's kind
of the path that we're going to pursue.
So let's do that OK.
Let's go into Google Docs.
Let's create a new sheet.
And here we go.
For those of you government use Google Docs Google Docs is free.
It's basically just like the Microsoft Suite platform.
But online and it's Google.
And it's in your browsers.
You can access it anywhere.
OK.
I'm going to call my sheet content ideas spreadsheet because you know that's what it is and I'm super
original.
You call it whatever you want.
Now for each idea we come up with.
We need to record information about it.
And the more ideas we have the more important it will be to have all the info about each one to help
us organize and sort it all out.
So let's add some fields at the top so we can make sense of all the ideas we come up with later.
Let's start with the title now.
Isn't it a little bit early you might ask to be coming up with the title names or content.
We were really just thinking about and in some cases I actually know sometimes you might come up with
the exact title you want and that's a good thing.
Oftentimes you'll come up with content you want to write but you can't really think of a sexy title
or any title that would be remotely interesting or on brand.
And that's generally something you want to nip in the bud it's usually not a good content idea.
OK.
Let's just fill out some theoretical ideas let's say how to deal with annoying clients had some pop
to it.
Let's put that in there.
And yes it can change but for now let's just use what we've got.
And yes absolutely.
Other times you have a general idea like the top X number of projects where photoshop is easier than
illustrator.
And by the time you finish writing that that X will turn into the actual number.
So you don't necessarily have to be 100 percent precise in your title but you should try at least you
get the format done.
Let's say I want to write something like My logo design process like something along how I do it when
my workflow is well I don't have a snappy title yet but you'll know what it's basically about.
And then later on you can try to come up with something a little more pizzazz or whatever you know.
Put that in there.
Don't judge yourself too much.
Just throw it in because later on we can sort through it.
Now the titles.
Help us start thinking about our ideas.
But sometimes we need more info or we forget what we were thinking about exactly.
So a second field or description or summary.
Keep it short but maybe list out the main point of the three key ideas or what you hope to accomplish
with the post.
Sometimes that I do is I list out the three most compelling points I'd make in it things that I think
are more scrappy or uncommon or whatever the secret sources in some cases your idea maybe like a response
to something you saw online or inspired by another post.
So in that case let's add a You are Alan there in case you need a reminder of what you wanted to write
about.
If you're not writing in response to something you can use this one as a reference to something you
saw for inspiration or some you want to look at later as you're collecting these ideas you can begin
to add some organization and include a category any post about Photoshop for example might fall under
the photoshop category or maybe I'd call it like tools.
I don't really know you could play with it make it whatever you want see how things start to shape up
if you're not sure you can always go out to someone else's blog and see how they do it lines and colors.
For example as a block for digital artist and a less post about Photoshop under the category called
tools and techniques.
So yeah I might consider calling it that now categories are nice because as you add a new idea you can
immediately slot it into that group.
Eventually you might see a group of ideas that could be turned into a series but you know let's not
get ahead of ourselves yet if we know what kind of content this is going to be we could put in a another
column for format we could put blog post video mini site or something else.
This is another way to help you find ideas but also to help you figure out what you'll need to make
them an idea for a video going to require a script for example which is different from a blog post.
Now the first couple of ideas I have on my list are generally going to be blog post but the one about
my logo design process for example could work well with the video instead.
Now we could just put blogs slash video in there as a thought meeting or kind of open it to it being
a video maybe just depending on how much time we have it could just be a blog.
OK.
Now what else can we add in here.
How about a goal in the beginning you might not be sure exactly what your goal is or the specific piece
but you will want to define 1 by the time you publish it.
So if you're blogging about tips to create a logo and illustrator for example you could use it as an
opportunity to ask people Do you want a logo done for your company.
Contact us for a free quote or let's view logos from our satisfied customers.
Perhaps you want to generate leads get people to buy something or compel them to sign up for your email
newsletter.
Keep a goal in mind and each piece you create will help you achieve it.
So there you go.
That's a spreadsheet approach to recording your ideas and this is a pretty good starter package for
putting down what we need.
This is simple enough.
You can play around with the format.
You can move the fields around if you want or add some others if you think it's necessary.
You might decide you want to add the platform will be posted for instance.
Like is it gonna go on your blog as new on LinkedIn medium or somewhere else.
You might also put things like date to make sure some of these get done by a certain point.
You know like that post about Black Friday November Are you one that's a riff on like Valentine's Day.
Those are time sensitive so maybe you want to make sure that you get these done sooner.
So the question then is What are you going to put into this list.
Well in the next lecture we'll talk about a bunch of places you can go to find inspiration.
All right I'll see you then.